.TH pass-tomb 1 "March 2025" "1.1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pass-tomb \- The Crypto Undertaker for your passwords
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pass-tomb
[OPTIONS] <command> [arguments]
.SH DESCRIPTION
pass-tomb is a tomb(1) script, meant to be used alongside pass which tries to replace the passwordstore keeping its core philosophies.

It's a CLI tool that tries to help securing your passwords by storing them inside a tomb.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -e
Exhume a buried key to unlock a tomb.
.TP
.B -g
Create a tomb key using a GPG ID.
.TP
.B -h
Display this help message and exit.
.TP
.B -n
Enable notifications.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B dig [-g] <TOMB_KEY> <GPG-ID>
Create a tomb with the specified key, optionally using a GPG ID for encryption.
.TP
.B import <TOMB_KEY>
Move all passwords from the password store into your tomb.
.TP
.B help, usage
Display help message
.TP
.B open [-e -g] <TOMB_KEY>
Open a tomb at the specified location, optionally using a buried key or GPG ID.
.TP
.B version
Display the current version number.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B pass-tomb new dig -g my.tomb.key DA54ACB7D10
Create a new tomb using a GPG key.
.TP
.B pass-tomb open -e -g my.tomb.key
Open a tomb using a buried GPG key.
.TP
.B pass-tomb import my.tomb.key
Import all passwords from $PASS_STORE into your tomb.

.SH BURY AND EXHUME
Burying and exhuming secret keys is a method to hide your secret keys inside a JPG image using steghide(1), also called as deniable key storage, in order to further increase your protection.

Buring is the act of hiding a key inside a JPG image, and exhume is the act of taking it from the JPG image.

.SH GPG Keys
It's possible to use a GPG key to lock your tomb, by instead of using a default tomb key and a password, you use a encrypted private key using GPG and its password, plus the tomb password. In pass-tomb, the GPG is automatically hidden, so there is no way to know who encrypted such key.

.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success, non-zero on failure.

.SH AUTHOR
Janpstrunn <janpstrunn@disroot.org>

.SH SEE ALSO
age(1) gpg(1) pass(1) tomb(1)
